How would you define a good teacher?
That's an interesting question, isn't it?
For many of us, perhaps we might answer by saying what we think a good speaker is like.
We might say the brother uses many illustrations in his talk
or he was able to highlight a scripture that I've read many times,
and yet for the first time I've seen something interesting in that that I've never seen before.
Or perhaps we might say that he was able to keep my interest right through the 60 minutes.
Well, there are all sorts of different ways we could say that someone is a good teacher.
Of course, the best compliment someone could receive is if they're told that they're teaching
a similar to that of Jesus Christ, because we know he said a wonderful example for all of us.
But as we're thinking about the qualifications for someone to be a good teacher,
let's turn our attention to the words of the Apostle Paul.
And if you turn with me please, to 1 Thessalonians chapter 2 and verses 7 and 8.
And here we see in addition to some of the matters that we just discussed,
other aspects or other qualities that are required for someone really to be an effective teacher.
So as 1 Thessalonians 2, 7 and 8.
On the contrary, we became gentle in your midst as when a nursing mother tenderly cares for her own children.
So having tender affection for you, we were determined to impart to you not only the good news of God,
but also our very selves.
You notice some of the qualities or attributes here that the Apostle Paul mentions
is being very important with regard to our teaching.
In verse 8, it mentions tender affection.
So love is very much connected with someone having the ability to be a good teacher.
In fact, to reach the heart of the student, we have to display love as well, don't we?
Without reaching the heart of the student, if we're trying to teach,
it's like enjoying a meal in a dream.
There really is no benefit at all.
So if we teach, but don't reach the heart of the student, then it really is a very little value to the student.
Then looking on, notice it says Paul was determined to impart not just the message of the good news,
but his very self.
In other words, he put his whole heart into teaching others.
Let's look up at verse 7, and I feel quite confident in saying that probably none of us would have listed this quality as being essential for a good teacher.
How does he start?
We became gentle in your midst.
Now, honestly, that probably isn't the first quality that would come to your mind with regard to a teacher.
But what's meant by this expression to be gentle?
Well, one Bible scholar made this comment.
He said this word that's translated gentle was frequently used by Greek writers as characterizing a nurse with trying children,
or a teacher with refractory scholars.
Now, I had to look up the word refractory and add it to my vocabulary.
It means basically difficult to control, resisting authority, unmanageable, unresponsive.
Well, do we see an interesting thought here?
This gentleness has a firmness and stability about it that isn't rocked or shaken easily by the negative response of the one that's being taught.
Isn't that an interesting quality?
And no doubt, we've all tried to display that perhaps as we're trying to teach someone something about the scriptures
and we come across the thought that this person doesn't really accept it.
We state the fact, we show a scripture, but still they may have a problem.
Well, how do we react?
You see, if we were to demand that they accept what we say because we said it, or because the scriptures said,
without reasoning with that person, then really we don't have that gentleness that the Apostle Paul is referring to here.
So that's the ability under pressure to, in a lovingly way, in loving way, convince someone of something that perhaps they're not so responsive to.
Doesn't that open our minds to another aspect of what is involved with good teaching?
Now, by contrast, if we look back at 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, we'll see that the Apostle Paul in verses 5 and 6 gives us a contrast about the type of things that we wouldn't want to do as a teacher.
Let's read that in verse 5 and 6.
In fact, you know that we never use flattering speech or put on any false front with greedy motives. God is witness.
Nor have we been seeking glory from men, either from you or from others, but we could be an expensive burden as apostles of Christ.
So what are these negative things that we certainly would want to avoid if we want to be an effective teacher?
Well, notice that first one, flattering speech. Now, this reminds us of another scripture. Let's turn across to Proverbs chapter 28 and verse 23.
And this is a good reminder for all of us.
It says, whoever reproves a man, you know, or corrects his thinking, will afterward find more favor, favor than someone who flatters with his tongue.
Do we see the point that's being made there that flattery is not really an effective way for us to gain someone's confidence, but rather honestly correcting the thinking of someone else.
So with our Bible students or whatever level of teaching that we're doing, we need to remember the part of the process of teaching involves giving counsel or direction and correcting wrong viewpoints.
For us not to do that in a loving way really shows that we don't love the person properly because we don't really want them to change their wrong thinking.
So avoiding flattering speech is very important.
Going back to first of us, this alone in chapter two, what's the second point that Paul mentions, a false front with greedy motives, so a false front pretending to be someone that you're not.
So none of us would ever want to put across a self-righteous viewpoint to try and convince others that we are holier than they are.
But as it says here, not to have that false front, and then mentions, it mentions greedy motives.
You see there is a marginal reference that takes us across to Acts chapter 20, verse 33.
There the apostle Paul says, I have desired no man's silver or gold or clothing.
So certainly as a teacher of the good news, we wouldn't want to expect some benefits or something that we've come back to us by means of our teaching.
There the apostle Paul says a good standard for us.
And then in verse six, he said he wasn't seeking the glory of men, or as one translation says insisting on our own dignity.
So it could be that if we're a teacher, we may feel that we deserve a certain measure of respect.
Yes, our position is a little higher than the student.
If we really feel that way deep inside, that's going to affect our attitude with regard to being gentle.
Not it because if someone questions what we say, or if it looks like they're not dignifying us in a proper manner, then we will lose that firm gentleness that helps correct the thinking of others.
Well, when we think about all these various attributes and qualities that are needed for us to be a good teacher, perhaps we might feel that there's a lot we can work on.
I'm sure I feel that way as well. It's a continual battle isn't it for us to continue to try and be effective teachers.
But one word of encouragement we gained from the book of Philippians as a final description.
Philippians chapter 2 and verse 13.
For God is the one who for the sake of His good pleasure energizes you, giving you both notice the desire.
Yes, so the desire for us to impart the truth in a loving manner to others and then also the power to act.
So as we consider our teaching abilities, don't just think of techniques, but always remember, when we're a good teacher we need to be gentle in the midst of others and help them in a loving way to correct wrong thoughts.